Add topic properties reference (#1290)
redpanda-data/documentation: docs/reference/topic-properties.mdx

---
title: Topic Configuration Properties
toc_min_heading_level: 2
toc_max_heading_level: 3
---

<head>
  <meta name="title" content="Topic configuration properties | Redpanda Docs" />
  <meta
    name="description"
    content="Configure topic-level properties for Redpanda that override corresponding node or cluster properties."
  />
</head>

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";

A topic-level property sets a Redpanda or Kafka configuration for a particular topic. 

> Many [cluster properties](../../manage/cluster-maintenance/cluster-property-configuration) have corresponding topic-level properties. The value of a cluster property applies for all topics of a cluster. To customize the value for a topic, you can set a topic-level property that overrides the value of the corresponding cluster property.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Many [cluster properties](../../manage/cluster-maintenance/cluster-property-configuration) have corresponding topic-level properties. The value of a cluster property applies for all topics of a cluster. To customize the value for a topic, you can set a topic-level property on the command line that overrides the value of the corresponding cluster property.
```

> | Topic property                                    | Corresponding Cluster property                                                      |

Reviewer: How about switching the order (and retitling) so "Cluster property" is on the left and "Corresponding topic property" is on the right?
The lead-in sentence focusses on cluster properties, so that's the frame of reference.

Author: Because users will more likely navigate to this page to find a reference for a topic property, this should be a lookup table from a topic property they're looking for to its corresponding cluster property.

| [`cleanup.policy`](#cleanuppolicy)                | [`log_cleanup_policy`](../cluster-properties#log_cleanup_policy)                 |
| [`retention.bytes`](#retentionbytes)              | [`retention_bytes`](../cluster-properties#retention_bytes)                       |
| [`retention.ms`](#retentionms)                    | [`delete_retention_ms`](../cluster-properties#delete_retention_ms)               |
| [`segment.ms`](#segmentms)                        | [`log_segment_ms`](../cluster-properties#log_segment_ms)                         |
| [`segment.bytes`](#segmentbytes)                  | [`log_segment_size`](../tunable-properties#log_segment_size)                     |
| [`compression.type`](#compressiontype)            | [`log_compression_type`](../cluster-properties#log_compression_type)             |
| [`message.timestamp.type`](#messagetimestamptype) | [`log_message_timestamp_type`](../cluster-properties#log_message_timestamp_type) |
| [`max.message.bytes`](#maxmessagebytes)           | [`kafka_batch_max_bytes`](../tunable-properties#kafka_batch_max_bytes)           |

> | [`replication.factor`](#replicationfactor)        | [`default_topic_replications`](../cluster-properties#default_topic_replications)   |

Reviewer: The `replication.factor` property was removed in an earlier release (21.11 I think?). Check this Slack convo:
https://redpandadata.slack.com/archives/C04LYNJQUGN/p1679346381485699?thread_ts=1679345262.700319&cid=C04LYNJQUGN

Author: Thanks, will remove from this table, and will review whether it should be in this reference at all as a topic property.

Reviewer 2: `replication.factor` is still a valid topic property but it's not just listed in the DescribeTopics response, Kafka protocol wise. As we can change it via `rpk topic alter-config [TOPICS...] --set replication.factor=3`, [ref](https://docs.redpanda.com/docs/manage/data-migration/#change-topic-replication-factor), it's better to leave it here. @mmaslankaprv @twmb , thoughts?

Author: My latest commits ([9c6e636](https://github.com/redpanda-data/documentation/pull/1290/commits/9c6e636962640a08b0e2862618dc787a41149e32), [2c94b93](https://github.com/redpanda-data/documentation/pull/1290/commits/2c94b9361e988cdb47eaa07d48ef7f8adf1adc8b)) added clarification about `replication.factor` being Redpanda-specific and configurable via `rpk topic alter-config`.

Reviewer 3: @daisukebe I thought we ignored replication.factor being changed now. I'm not sure why we don't reject that as a config option. I'd like to wait for @mmaslankaprv 's thoughts here too

Reviewer 2: Hmm ohk. It's still available.
```
daisuke@/playground/ $ rpk topic describe -p test --brokers localhost:9093
PARTITION  LEADER  EPOCH  REPLICAS  LOG-START-OFFSET  HIGH-WATERMARK
0          1       1      [1 2 3]   0                 0
daisuke@/playground/ $ rpk topic alter-config test -s replication.factor=1 --brokers localhost:9093
TOPIC  STATUS
test   OK
daisuke@/playground/ $ rpk topic describe -p test --brokers localhost:9093
PARTITION  LEADER  EPOCH  REPLICAS  LOG-START-OFFSET  HIGH-WATERMARK
0          1       1      [1]       0                 0
```
```
daisuke@/playground/ $ rpk redpanda admin brokers list --hosts localhost:9645
NODE-ID  NUM-CORES  MEMBERSHIP-STATUS  IS-ALIVE  BROKER-VERSION
1        2          active             true      v23.1.2 - 6002d4db8cefabafb155030bc18321afe3fc2db3
2        2          active             true      v23.1.2 - 6002d4db8cefabafb155030bc18321afe3fc2db3
3        2          active             true      v23.1.2 - 6002d4db8cefabafb155030bc18321afe3fc2db3
```

Author: @mmaslankaprv @twmb @daisukebe - I'd like to resolve this comment by the end of day Thursday Apr 6. If it's still unresolved, I propose to remove `replication.factor` for now, and to review its inclusion in a separate PR.

Reviewer 4: Replication factor can be changed by alter configuration, it is not reported as it isn't a valid Kafka property. So it only works one way. Also when altered it isn't simply setting the property but actually changing replica sets of topic partitions.

> ## Examples

Reviewer: Let's move "Examples" into a tutorial. The tutorial can link to the reference topic as appropriate.

```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Modify topic properties

To modify topic properties of an existing topic, use the [rpk topic alter-config](../rpk/rpk-topic/rpk-topic-alter-config) command.

For example, to modify a topic's `retention.ms` property:

<Tabs groupId="dev-env">
<TabItem value="local" label="Local" default>

```bash
rpk topic alter-config <topic-name> --set retention.ms=<retention-time>
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="k8s" label="Kubernetes">

```bash
kubectl exec <pod-name> -- rpk topic alter-config <topic-name> --set retention.ms=<retention-time>
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Properties

This section describes all supported topic-level properties.

### Disk space properties

The following properties manage the disk space used by a topic:

- Clean up log segments by deletion and/or compaction ([`cleanup.policy`](#cleanuppolicy)).
- Retain logs up to a maximum size per partition before cleanup ([`retention.bytes`](#retentionbytes)).
- Retain logs for a maximum duration before cleanup ([`retention.ms`](#retentionms)).
- Periodically roll logs to inactivate segments ([`segment.ms`](#segmentms)).

> - Retain log segments up to a maximum size ([`segment.bytes`](#segmentbytes)).

Reviewer: Suggest listing <property name> - description (switch the order).
The lead-in sentence says "The following _properties_...", so properties should come first.

Author: I prefer to change the lead-in sentence, because I intended for this bulleted list to a be a lookup "table" from a use-case to a property.

When both size-based (`retention.bytes`) and time-based (`retention.ms`) retention limits are set, cleanup occurs when either limit is reached.

**Default**: null

**Related topics**:

- [Configure message retention](../../manage/cluster-maintenance/disk-utilization#configure-message-retention)

---

#### retention.ms

A time-based retention limit that configures the maximum duration that a log's segment file for a topic is retained before it becomes eligible to be cleaned up. To consume all data, a consumer of the topic must read from a segment before its `retention.ms` elapses, otherwise the segment may be compacted and/or deleted. If a non-positive value, no per-topic limit is applied.

If `retention.ms` is set to a positive value, it overrides the cluster property [`delete_retention_ms`](../cluster-properties#delete_retention_ms) for the topic.

When both size-based (`retention.bytes`) and time-based (`retention.ms`) retention limits are set, the earliest occurring limit applies.

**Default**: null

**Related topics**:

- [Configure message retention](../../manage/cluster-maintenance/disk-utilization#configure-message-retention)

---

> #### segment.ms

Reviewer 2: Whereas it's mentioned in the linked page, `Log rolling`, it's better to mention about `log_segment_ms_min` and `log_segment_ms_max`, which configure the lower and the upper bound on the property, respectively. 

https://github.com/redpanda-data/redpanda/blob/v23.1.1/src/v/config/configuration.cc#L94-L111

---
title: Topic Configuration Properties
toc_min_heading_level: 2
toc_max_heading_level: 3
---

<head>
  <meta name="title" content="Topic configuration properties | Redpanda Docs" />
  <meta
    name="description"
    content="Configure topic-level properties for Redpanda that apply per topic and override corresponding node or cluster properties."
  />
</head>

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";

A topic-level property sets a Redpanda or Kafka configuration for a particular topic. 

> ## Property overrides

Author: I like including "override" because it's a commonly used and understood term for Kafka configuration. "Topic-level" is less used, so it doesn't have the immediate connotation of an override. Thinking about alternatives ...

> Many topic-level properties override the value of a corresponding [cluster property](../../manage/cluster-maintenance/cluster-property-configuration). If a topic-level property isn't set, the corresponding cluster property takes effect by default.

Author: Yes, that's the gist. The "topic property at the cluster level" is the cluster property itself. I'll clarify this.

To set topic properties when creating a topic, use the [rpk topic create](../rpk/rpk-topic/rpk-topic-create) command with the `-c` option.

For example, to create a topic with the `cleanup.policy` property set to `compact`:

<Tabs groupId="dev-env">
<TabItem value="local" label="Local" default>

```bash
rpk topic create -c cleanup.policy=compact <topic-name>
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="k8s" label="Kubernetes">

```bash
kubectl exec <pod-name> -- rpk topic create -c cleanup.policy=compact<topic-name>
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

To configure multiple properties for a topic, use the `-c` option for each property.

For example, to create a topic with all necessary properties for Tiered Storage:

<Tabs groupId="dev-env">
<TabItem value="local" label="Local" default>

```bash
rpk topic create -c redpanda.remote.recovery=true -c redpanda.remote.write=true -c redpanda.remote.read=true <topic-name>
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="k8s" label="Kubernetes">

```bash
kubectl exec <pod-name> -- rpk topic create -c redpanda.remote.recovery=true -c redpanda.remote.write=true -c redpanda.remote.read=true <topic-name>
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Modify topic properties

> To set or modify topic properties of an existing topic, use the [rpk topic alter-config](../rpk/rpk-topic/rpk-topic-alter-config) command.

Author: Set = modify a property of an existing topic that wasn't explicitly set upon topic creation. I see your point, it's redundant to "modify", will change this to "To modify topic properties of an existing topic ..."

For example, to modify a topic's `retention.ms` property:

<Tabs groupId="dev-env">
<TabItem value="local" label="Local" default>

```bash
rpk topic alter-config <topic-name> --set retention.ms=<retention-time>
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="k8s" label="Kubernetes">

```bash
kubectl exec <pod-name> -- rpk topic alter-config <topic-name> --set retention.ms=<retention-time>
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Properties

This section describes all supported topic-level properties.

### Disk space properties

Configure properties to manage the disk space used by a topic:

- Clean up log segments by deletion and/or compaction ([`cleanup.policy`](#cleanuppolicy)).
- Retain logs up to a maximum size per partition before cleanup ([`retention.bytes`](#retentionbytes)).
- Retain logs for a maximum duration before cleanup ([`retention.ms`](#retentionms)).
- Periodically roll logs to inactivate segments ([`segment.ms`](#segmentms)).

> - Retain log segments up to a maximum size ([`segment.bytes`](#segmentbytes)).

Author: I prefer the bulleted list, because it emphasizes the summary descriptions (with the links to properties as convenient asides).

---

### Tiered Storage properties

Configure properties to manage topics for [Tiered Storage](../../manage/tiered-storage):

- Upload and fetch data to and from object storage for a topic ([`redpanda.remote.write`](#redpandaremotewrite) and [`redpanda.remote.read`](#redpandaremoteread)).
- Configure size-based and time-based retention properties for local storage of a topic ([`retention.local.target.bytes`](#retentionlocaltargetbytes) and [`retention.local.target.ms`](#retentionlocaltargetms)).
- Recover or reproduce data for a topic from object storage ([`redpanda.remote.recovery`](#redpandaremoterecovery)).
- Delete data from object storage for a topic when it's deleted from local storage ([`redpanda.remote.delete`](#redpandaremotedelete)).

#### redpanda.remote.write

A flag for enabling Redpanda to upload data for a topic from local storage to object storage. When set `true` together with [redpanda.remote.read](#redpandaremoteread), it enables the [Tiered Storage](../../manage/tiered-storage) feature.

**Default**: false

**Related topics**:

- [Tiered Storage](../../manage/tiered-storage)

---

#### redpanda.remote.read

> A flag for enabling Redpanda to fetch data for a topic from object storage to local storage. When set `true` together with [redpanda.remote.write](#redpandaremotewrite), it enables the [Tiered Storage](../../manage/tiered-storage) feature.

Author: From https://vectorizedio.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/DOC/pages/92635182/Redpanda+Documentation+Style+Guide#Redpanda-specific-word-list, use "Redpanda" to refer to the product.

**Default**: false

**Related topics**:

- [Tiered Storage](../../manage/tiered-storage)

---

#### retention.local.target.bytes

> A size-based retention limit that configures the maximum size that a topic partition in local storage of Tiered Storage can grow before becoming eligible for cleanup. It is equivalent to [retention.bytes](#retentionbytes) without Tiered Storage.

Author: It's the local storage of/for Tiered Storage. I'll reword it to be clearer.

**Default**: null

**Related topics**:

- [Tiered Storage](../../manage/tiered-storage)

---

#### retention.local.target.ms

A time-based retention limit that configures the maximum duration that a log's segment file for a topic in local storage of Tiered Storage is retained before it becomes eligible to be cleaned up. It is equivalent to [retention.ms](#retentionms) without Tiered Storage.

**Default**: null

**Related topics**:

- [Tiered Storage](../../manage/tiered-storage)

---

#### redpanda.remote.recovery

A flag that enables the recovery or reproduction of a topic from object storage for Tiered Storage. The recovered data is saved in local storage, and the maximum amount of recovered data is determined by the local storage retention limits of the topic.

:::tip

> `redpanda.remote.recovery` must be configured at topic creation. It cannot be configured, and does not apply, for existing topics.

Reviewer: Change to active voice (and avoid "nominalization"):
```suggestion
You can only configure `redpanda.remote.recovery` when you create a topic. You cannot apply this setting to existing topics.
```

:::

**Default**: false

**Related topics**:

- [Tiered Storage](../../manage/tiered-storage)

---

#### redpanda.remote.delete

A flag that enables deletion of data from object storage for Tiered Storage when it's deleted from local storage for a topic.

:::note
`redpanda.remote.delete` doesn't apply to Remote Read Replica topics: a Remote Read Replica topic isn't deleted from object storage when this flag is `true`.
:::

**Default**:

> - `false` for topics created prior to Redpanda 22.3.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `false` for topics created using Redpanda 22.2 or earlier.
```

---
title: Topic Configuration Properties
toc_min_heading_level: 2
toc_max_heading_level: 3
---

<head>
  <meta name="title" content="Topic configuration properties | Redpanda Docs" />
  <meta
    name="description"
    content="Look up reference descriptions and examples about topic-level properties for Redpanda."
  />
</head>

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";

> Look up reference descriptions and examples of topic-level properties supported by Redpanda.

Reviewer 5: This intro seems inconsistent with the first statement in the other properties. None of those have the "About" section either. I think all of the property files should have a consistent intro. Maybe start with: 

Topic-level properties set the Redpanda or Kafka configuration for a particular topic. 

And then remove the About heading?  Concerned about consistency with the other properties ref intros.

Author: All the properties references will be updated to have more substantial conceptual "About" sections in upcoming PRs. Before updating them all, for consistency this "About ..." heading will be removed, but its content will be retained.

| [`retention.bytes`](#retentionbytes)              | [`retention_bytes`](../cluster-properties#retention_bytes)                       |
| [`retention.ms`](#retentionms)                    | [`delete_retention_ms`](../cluster-properties#delete_retention_ms)               |
| [`segment.ms`](#segmentms)                        | [`log_segment_ms`](../cluster-properties#log_segment_ms)                         |
| [`segment.bytes`](#segmentbytes)                  | [`log_segment_size`](../tunable-properties#log_segment_size)                     |
| [`compression.type`](#compressiontype)            | [`log_compression_type`](../cluster-properties#log_compression_type)             |
| [`message.timestamp.type`](#messagetimestamptype) | [`log_message_timestamp_type`](../cluster-properties#log_message_timestamp_type) |
| [`max.message.bytes`](#maxmessagebytes)           | [`kafka_batch_max_bytes`](../tunable-properties#kafka_batch_max_bytes)           |
| [`replication.factor`](#replicationfactor)        | [`default_topic_replications`](../cluster-properties#default_topic_replications)   |

:::note

> The `SOURCE` output of the [`rpk topic describe <topic>`](../rpk/rpk-topic/rpk-topic-describe) command describes how the property was set for the topic:
> - `DEFAULT_CONFIG` was set by a Redpanda default.
> - `DYNAMIC_TOPIC_CONFIG` was set by the user specifically for the topic and overrides inherited default configurations, such as a default or a cluster-level property.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The `SOURCE` output of the [`rpk topic describe <topic>`](../rpk/rpk-topic/rpk-topic-describe) command describes how the property is set for the topic:
- `DEFAULT_CONFIG` is set by a Redpanda default.
- `DYNAMIC_TOPIC_CONFIG` is set by the user specifically for the topic and overrides inherited default configurations, such as a default or a cluster-level property.
```

> While [`rpk topic describe`](../rpk/rpk-topic/rpk-topic-describe) doesn't report `replication.factor` as a configuration, `replication.factor` can indeed be set via the [`rpk topic alter-config`](../rpk/rpk-topic/rpk-topic-alter-config) command.

Reviewer 5: Style Guide instructs not to use "via":

While [`rpk topic describe`](../rpk/rpk-topic/rpk-topic-describe) doesn't report `replication.factor` as a configuration, `replication.factor` can indeed be set using the [`rpk topic alter-config`](../rpk/rpk-topic/rpk-topic-alter-config) command.

If `retention.ms` is set to a positive value, it overrides the cluster property [`delete_retention_ms`](../cluster-properties#delete_retention_ms) for the topic.

When both size-based (`retention.bytes`) and time-based (`retention.ms`) retention limits are set, the earliest occurring limit applies.

**Default**: null

**Related topics**:

- [Configure message retention](../../manage/cluster-maintenance/disk-utilization#configure-message-retention)

---

#### segment.ms

The maximum duration that a log segment of a topic is active (open for writes and not deletable). A periodic event, with `segment.ms` as its period, forcibly closes the active segment and transitions, or rolls, to a new active segment. The closed (inactive) segment is then eligible to be cleaned up according to cleanup and retention properties.

If set to a positive duration, `segment.ms` overrides the cluster property [`log_segment_ms`](../cluster-properties#log_segment_ms) and its lower and upper bounds set by [`log_segment_ms_min`](../cluster-properties#log_segment_ms_min) and [`log_segment_ms_max`](../cluster-properties#log_segment_ms_max), respectively.

**Default**: null

**Related topics**:

> [Log rolling](../../manage/cluster-maintenance/disk-utilization#log-rolling)

Reviewer 5: Other single related topic entries are in bullets (see preceding property). This one is not. Be consistent with how you present.

When `compression.type` is set, it overrides the cluster property [`log_compression_type`](../cluster-properties#log_compression_type) for the topic.

:::note
The valid values of `compression.type` are taken from `log_compression_type` and differ from Kafka's compression types.
:::

**Default**: `none`

**Values**:

- `none`
- `gzip`
- `lz4`
- `snappy`
- `ztsd`
- `producer`

**Related topics**:

- [Message batching](../../develop/produce-data/configure-producers#message-batching)
- [Common producer configuration options](../../develop/produce-data/configure-producers#commonly-used-producer-configuration-options)

---

#### message.timestamp.type

The source of a message's timestamp: either the message's creation time or its log append time.

When `message.timestamp.type` is set, it overrides the cluster property [`log_message_timestamp_type`](../cluster-properties#log_message_timestamp_type) for the topic.

> **Default**: `'CreateTime'`

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
**Default**: `CreateTime`
```

**Values**:

> - `'CreateTime'`
> - `'LogAppendTime'`

Reviewer 5: Are the backticks supposed to appear here?

```suggestion
- `CreateTime`
- `LogAppendTime`
```

:::

**Default**:

- `false` for topics created using Redpanda 22.2 or earlier.
- `true` for topics created in Redpanda 22.3 and later, including new topics on upgraded clusters.

**Related topics**:

- [Tiered Storage](../../manage/tiered-storage)

---

### Remote Read Replica properties

Configure properties to manage topics for [Remote Read Replicas](../../manage/remote-read-replicas).

#### redpanda.remote.readreplica

The name of the object storage bucket for a Remote Read Replica topic.

:::caution
Setting `redpanda.remote.readreplica` together with either `redpanda.remote.read` or `redpanda.remote.write` results in an error.
:::

**Default**: null

**Related topics**:

- [Remote Read Replicas](../../manage/remote-read-replicas)

---

### Redpanda topic properties

Configure Redpanda-specific topic properties.

#### replication.factor

The number of replicas of a topic to save in different nodes (brokers) of a cluster.

If `replication.factor` is set to a positive value, it overrides the cluster property [default_topic_replications](../cluster-properties#default_topic_replications) for the topic.

:::note

> Although `replication.factor` isn't returned or displayed by [`rpk topic describe`](../rpk/rpk-topic/rpk-topic-describe) as a valid Kafka property, it indeed can be set by [`rpk topic alter-config`](../rpk/rpk-topic/rpk-topic-alter-config). When the `replication.factor` of a topic is altered, it isn't simply a property value that's updated, but rather the actual replica sets of topic partitions are changed.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Although `replication.factor` isn't returned or displayed by [`rpk topic describe`](../rpk/rpk-topic/rpk-topic-describe) as a valid Kafka property, you can set it using [`rpk topic alter-config`](../rpk/rpk-topic/rpk-topic-alter-config). When the `replication.factor` of a topic is altered, it isn't simply a property value that's updated, but rather the actual replica sets of topic partitions that are changed.
```
